Siamese networks have a special
type of architecture.
They have two identical subnetworks
which are merged together to
produce a final output or
a similarity score.
I like to think of these two subnetworks
as sister networks which come
together to produce a similarity score.
>> Speaker 2: This is a model
architecture for a Siamese network.
Note that the architecture
presented here is just an example.
Not all Siamese networks will
be designed to contain LSTMs.
On the left, you have two inputs which
represent question 1 and question 2.
You'll take each question, transform it
into an embedding, and then you'll run
the embedding through an LSTM layer
to model the question's meaning.
Each LSTM outputs a vector.
So in this architecture, you have
two identical subnetworks, one for
question 1 and a second for question 2.
An important note here is that the
subnetworks share identical parameters.
That is, the learned parameters of
each subnetwork are exactly the same.
So you actually only need to train
one set of weights, not two.
Then, given the two outputs vectors,
one corresponding to each question,
find their cosine similarity.
Recall that the cosine similarity is a
measure of similarity between two vectors.
When two vectors point generally
in the same direction,
the cosine of the angle
between them is near 1.
And for
vectors that point in opposite directions,
the cosine of the angle
between them is -1.
If that sounds unfamiliar, don't worry.
Right now you just need to know that the
cosine similarity tells you how similar
two vectors are.
And in this case, it tells you how
similar the two questions are.
So the cosine similarity gives
the Siamese network's prediction,
denoted here by the variable y hat, which
will be a value between -1 and positive 1.
If y hat is less than or
equal to some threshold tau,
then you will say that the input
questions are different.
And if y hat is greater than tau,
then you will say that they are the same.
The threshold tau is a parameter, that
you'll choose based on how often you want
to interpret cosine similarity to indicate
that two questions are similar or not.
A higher threshold means that only
very similar sentences will be
considered similar.
If you think of this process as
a series of steps you take to get
from your input to your output,
it would go something like this.
You start with the model architecture for
a Siamese network,
made up of two identical subnetworks.
In this case, your inputs are questions
that you feed into each subnetwork.
And each question gets transformed
into an embedding, and
passed through an LSTM layer.
Then you take the outputs of
each of the subnetworks and
compare them using cosine
similarity to get your y hat.
>> Speaker 1: After seeing the model
architecture, I'll start talking about
different cost functions you can use for
this type of architecture.